website/docs: sys-mgmt/s3: Clean up and improve (#16242)
goauthentik/authentik: website/docs/sys-mgmt/ops/storage-s3.md

Create or pick a bucket for authentik media, for example `authentik-media`. Adjust the name to your provider’s bucket naming rules. We suffix with `-media` as authentik currently only stores media files (icons, etc.).

The domain you use to access authentik is referred to as `authentik.company` in the examples below.

You will also need the AWS CLI available locally.

## S3 configuration

### Bucket creation

Create the bucket that authentik will use for media files:

```bash
AWS_ACCESS_KEY_ID=access_key AWS_SECRET_ACCESS_KEY=secret_key aws s3api --endpoint-url=https://s3.provider create-bucket --bucket=authentik-media --acl=private
```

If using AWS S3, you can omit `--endpoint-url`, but you may need to specify `--region`. Some regions require `--create-bucket-configuration LocationConstraint=<region>`.

The bucket ACL is set to private. Depending on your provider you can alternatively disable ACLs and rely on bucket policies.

### CORS policy

> Apply a CORS policy to the bucket, enabling the authentik web interface to access images directly.

Author: ```suggestion
Apply a CORS policy to the bucket, allowing the authentik web interface to access images directly.
```

> ### Preparation

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Preparation
```

First, create a user on your S3 storage provider and get access credentials (hereafter referred to as `access_key` and `secret_key`).

> You will also need the S3 API endpoint authentik will use (hereafter referred to as `https://s3.provider`). For AWS S3 you can omit the endpoint; for S3‑compatible providers (Azure Blob Storage, Cloudflare R2, etc.) use the provider’s endpoint URL.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You will also need the S3 API endpoint authentik will use (hereafter referred to as `https://s3.provider`). When using AWS S3, there’s no need to set the endpoint, but for S3-compatible services like Azure Blob Storage or Cloudflare R2, use the provider's endpoint URL.
```

Create or pick a bucket for authentik media, for example `authentik-media`. Adjust the name to your provider’s bucket naming rules. We suffix with `-media` as authentik currently only stores media files (icons, etc.).

The domain you use to access authentik is referred to as `authentik.company` in the examples below.

You will also need the AWS CLI available locally.

> ### S3 configuration

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## S3 configuration
```

> #### Bucket creation

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Bucket creation
```

> Create the bucket authentik will use for media files:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Create the bucket that authentik will use for media files:
```

```bash
AWS_ACCESS_KEY_ID=access_key AWS_SECRET_ACCESS_KEY=secret_key aws s3api --endpoint-url=https://s3.provider create-bucket --bucket=authentik-media --acl=private
```

If using AWS S3, you can omit `--endpoint-url`, but you may need to specify `--region`. Some regions require `--create-bucket-configuration LocationConstraint=<region>`.

The bucket ACL is set to private. Depending on your provider you can alternatively disable ACLs and rely on bucket policies.

> #### CORS policy

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### CORS policy
```

}
```

> If authentik is accessed from multiple domains, add each origin to `AllowedOrigins`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If authentik is accessed from multiple domains, include each one in `AllowedOrigins`.
```

AUTHENTIK_STORAGE__MEDIA__S3__BUCKET_NAME=authentik-media
```

If you are using AWS S3, add:

```env
AUTHENTIK_STORAGE__MEDIA__S3__REGION=us-east-1  # Use the region of the bucket
```

If you are using an S3‑compatible provider (non‑AWS), add:

```env
AUTHENTIK_STORAGE__MEDIA__S3__ENDPOINT=https://s3.provider
AUTHENTIK_STORAGE__MEDIA__S3__CUSTOM_DOMAIN=s3.provider/authentik-media
```

The `AUTHENTIK_STORAGE__MEDIA__S3__ENDPOINT` setting controls how authentik talks to the S3 provider. When set, it overrides region/`USE_SSL`.

> The `AUTHENTIK_STORAGE__MEDIA__S3__CUSTOM_DOMAIN` setting controls how URLs are constructed for the web interface. It should not include a scheme and must include the bucket. For example, with `CUSTOM_DOMAIN=s3.provider/authentik-media`, an object at `application-icons/application.png` will have a URL like `https://s3.provider/authentik-media/application-icons/application.png`. Whether HTTPS is used is controlled by `AUTHENTIK_STORAGE__MEDIA__S3__SECURE_URLS` (defaults to `true`). Depending on your provider you can also use virtual hosted-style domains like `authentik-media.s3.provider`.

Reviewer: This paragraph is very dense. I would spread it out a bit to make it easier to read.

:::info

> You can omit `ACCESS_KEY`/`SECRET_KEY` when using AWS SDK authentication (instance roles or profiles). See `AUTHENTIK_STORAGE__MEDIA__S3__SESSION_PROFILE` and related options in the configuration reference.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can omit `ACCESS_KEY` and `SECRET_KEY` when using AWS SDK authentication (instance roles or profiles). See `AUTHENTIK_STORAGE__MEDIA__S3__SESSION_PROFILE` and related options in the configuration reference](../../install-config/configuration/configuration.mdx#media-storage-settings).
```

:::

For more options (including `USE_SSL`, session profiles, and security tokens), see the [configuration reference](../../install-config/configuration/configuration.mdx#media-storage-settings).

> ### Migrating between storage backends

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Migrating between storage backends
```

> For more options (including `USE_SSL`, session profiles, and security tokens), see the [configuration reference](../../install-config/configuration/configuration.mdx#media-storage-settings).

Author: ```suggestion
For more options (including `AUTHENTIK_STORAGE__MEDIA__S3__USE_SSL`, session profiles, and security tokens), see the [configuration reference](../../install-config/configuration/configuration.mdx#media-storage-settings).
```

The following assumes the local storage path is `/media` and the bucket is `authentik-media`. Ensure your `aws` CLI is configured to talk to your provider (add `--endpoint-url` or `--region` as needed).

> #### From file to s3

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### From file to s3
```

Follow the setup steps above, then sync files from the local directory to S3 (to the bucket root):

```bash
aws s3 sync /media s3://authentik-media/
# For non-AWS providers, include the endpoint:
# aws --endpoint-url=https://s3.provider s3 sync /media s3://authentik-media/
```

> #### From s3 to file

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### From s3 to file
```
